Recent changes to install-lib                               -*- outline -*-

* Changes in version 1.3.0 (released 2005-08-20)

Added phase "build-clean", during which all the files created during
phase "build" should be removed.

Fixed a bug in the package definition of the library itself.

Added the source of the documentation to the distribution, to make
sure this library is considered as free software by Debian.


* Changes in version 1.2.0 (released 2004-11-14)

Added option --phases to perform only parts of the installation
procedure (either the "build" phase or the "install" phase).

Added a script called scsh-test-pkg (in bin/) which can be used to
test if a package satisfies (some of) the conventions laid out in the
documentation. While far from being perfect, and slightly pedantic on
naming issues, this script can be very useful for package authors.
Currently, it isn't installed automatically.

Fixed the test to check if a package is installed when
--non-shared-only is specified: in that case, consider the package as
already installed iff a directory in the "lib" location corresponding
to the current platform exists.

Added naming conventions and some documentation for "split packages"
(scsh packages composed of a main archive which is not scsh-aware, and
another archive providing scsh-related files, e.g. the package
definition).

Removed previously undocumented --layout-to option.

Changed (undocumented) behaviour of --layout and --layout-from
options: layouts must now be specified as a single s-expression
evaluating to a function mapping a package to a layout. Note: this
doesn't affect the documented behaviour of --layout which still
accepts names to designate predefined layouts.


* Changes in version 1.1.2 (released 2004-07-08)

By default, skip installation of all packages which are already
installed (and report these packages in the final message). The
"--force" option must be used to force their re-installation.


* Changes in version 1.1.1 (released 2004-06-13)

Changed the way "--destdir" is interpreted: now, it is a prefix for
the installation prefix, whereas before it was the root of the
installation prefix. In some cases, this implies a slightly different
behaviour, which corresponds more to the de facto standard.


* Changes in version 1.1 (released 2004-05-22)

The installation library itself is now installed as a scsh package
called "install-lib". The "scsh-install-pkg" script is just a wrapper
around this library.

As a consequence, the meaning of the "--prefix" option passed to the
installation script changed: it is now the prefix to use to install
the "install-lib" package. All the files but the wrapper script are
installed below this prefix, according to the chosen layout. The
wrapper script itself is put in the directory specified by the
"--bindir" option.

To comply with the packaging policy, some files were also renamed.
Most importantly, the name of the documentation changed from
"proposal.pdf" to "install-lib.pdf".


* Version 1.0 (released 2004-04-01)

First public release.
